[PROCESS CHANGE]: add a simple inactivity measure and process for removal (#1390)
knative/community: ROLES.md

  - Mentoring and guiding approvers, members, and new contributors.

## Stepping Down/Emeritus Process
If and when contributors' commitment levels change, contributors can consider stepping down (moving down the contributor ladder) or moving to emeritus status (completely stepping away from the project).

Once a member has decided to move to emeritus or step down the contributor ladder, their entries in Peribolos should be removed or modified according to the specific change. Members moving to emiritus status should be removed from the Knative GitHub organization in Peribolos through a PR submitted by the member or a member of the Steering Committee.

## Inactivity
It is important for contributors to be and stay active to set an example and show commitment to the project. Inactivity is harmful to the project as it may lead to unexpected delays, contributor attrition, and a lost of trust in the project.

* Inactivity is measured by:
    * Periods of no contributions for longer than 12 months
    * Periods of no communication for longer than 12 months
* Consequences of being inactive include:
    * Involuntary Removal or demotion

## Involuntary Removal or Demotion

> Removal or demotion of a contributor happens when responsibilities and requirements aren't being met. This may include repeated patterns of inactivity, extended period of inactivity, a period of failing to meet the requirements of your role, and/or a violation of the Code of Conduct. This process is important because it protects the community and its deliverables while also opens up opportunities for new contributors to step in.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should split the language concerning involuntary removals due to inactivity and disciplinary reasons (eg CoC violations). My feeling is that it sets a bad precedent where er are bucketing inactive contributors together with other kinds of removals which are punitive in nature.

> Removal or demotion of a contributor happens when responsibilities and requirements aren't being met. This may include repeated patterns of inactivity, extended period of inactivity, a period of failing to meet the requirements of your role, and/or a violation of the Code of Conduct. This process is important because it protects the community and its deliverables while also opens up opportunities for new contributors to step in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Removal or demotion of a contributor happens when responsibilities and requirements aren't being met. This may include repeated patterns of inactivity, extended period of inactivity, a period of failing to meet the requirements of your role. This process is important because it protects the community and its deliverables while also opens up opportunities for new contributors to step in.

Similarly, a disciplinary action such as a violation of the Code of Conduct, will result in a removal or demotion of a contributor.
```

Changed some text based on @puerco 's comment https://github.com/knative/community/pull/1390/files#r1293698887

Reviewer 2: cc @lance @puerco

> Involuntary removal or demotion is handled through a vote by a majority of the current Steering Committee members.

Reviewer 3: Do we want to be a bit more stringent here, maybe requiring 75% in favor of (i.e. a 4-1 vote)? I'd assume removing someone should be fairly unanimous and that if there's two folks opposed we could potentially end up in a tricky spot...

Author: Pinging @knative/steering-committee again... 

I can see that a 75% threshold would be good in contentious scenarios, but I imagine most of the time we'll just be purging the ranks of folks who have left the project for one reason or another without voluntarily removing themselves.

Reviewer 4: +1 for a 75% consensus, I also don't see it critical, and most of the time, people probably just "forgot" to remove themselves. Maybe we could add a note that the removed person should be notified about this with a short explanation so that such an involuntary removal does not come with a surprise

Author: @rhuss @psschwei I have modified the doc to indicate an 80% vote in favor of removal (4-1) ptal

* Inactivity is measured by:
    * Periods of no contributions for longer than 12 months
    * Periods of no communication for longer than 12 months
* Consequences of being inactive include:
    * Involuntary removal or demotion
    * Being asked to move to Emeritus status

## Involuntary Removal or Demotion

Involuntary removal/demotion of a contributor happens when responsibilities and requirements aren't being met. This may include repeated patterns of inactivity, extended period of inactivity, a period of failing to meet the requirements of your role, and/or a violation of the Code of Conduct. This process is important because it protects the community and its deliverables while also opens up opportunities for new contributors to step in.

Involuntary removal or demotion is handled through a vote by a majority of the current Steering Committee members.

## Stepping Down/Emeritus Process
If and when contributors' commitment levels change, contributors can consider stepping down (moving down the contributor ladder) vs moving to emeritus status (completely stepping away from the project).

> Contact the Maintainers about changing to Emeritus status, or reducing your contributor level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Contact the Steering Committee about changing to Emeritus status, or reducing your contributor level.
```

  - Mentoring and guiding approvers, members, and new contributors.

## Inactivity
It is important for contributors to be and stay active to set an example and show commitment to the project. Inactivity is harmful to the project as it may lead to unexpected delays, contributor attrition, and a lost of trust in the project.

* Inactivity is measured by:
    * Periods of no contributions for longer than 12 months
    * Periods of no communication for longer than 12 months
* Consequences of being inactive include:

>     * Involuntary removal or demotion

Reviewer 3: I'm a bit torn on the idea of demotion... given that a member is defined as "an established Contributor who regularly participates in the project", I could see an argument for just straight dropping folks who haven't contributed in a year.

Reviewer 5: I like the idea of just removing inactive folks instead of demoting as well. Demoting, for me at least, would be a bit offensive to me. I would rather just be silently removed.

    * Being asked to move to Emeritus status

## Involuntary Removal or Demotion

Involuntary removal/demotion of a contributor happens when responsibilities and requirements aren't being met. This may include repeated patterns of inactivity, extended period of inactivity, a period of failing to meet the requirements of your role, and/or a violation of the Code of Conduct. This process is important because it protects the community and its deliverables while also opens up opportunities for new contributors to step in.

Involuntary removal or demotion is handled through a vote by a majority of the current Steering Committee members.

## Stepping Down/Emeritus Process
If and when contributors' commitment levels change, contributors can consider stepping down (moving down the contributor ladder) vs moving to emeritus status (completely stepping away from the project).

> Contact the Steering Committee about changing to Emeritus status, or reducing your contributor level.

Reviewer 3: FWIW, in the past, stepping down has been handled by the person in question opening a PR (#1326 for example). 

Also, currently promoting a person to reviewer/approver is handled by the WG leads, while promoting someone to lead is done by the TOC. Would we want to have promotion and demotion handled by the same group of folks?
